hi in this video I will show you how you
can create tile sets in pixel
app a good way of creating the starting
point for a high top down tile set is to
use the create M to XL image tool here
I'm generating grass surrounding
dirt so the reason why I'm doing it this
way is that if you're using the create
map tool it isn't like always amazing at
creating the first image so what I do is
I use another model to create a good
starting point and then I will using
Create map to expand and create all the
parts you expect in a tile
set so here you can use shift s to more
easily use the list selection tool and
grabbing and grab blocks and move them
around then I will use uh create map to
in paint in
between with create map it automatically
in paints Alpha zero so you don't need
to inpaint by hand in between the uh
like in the cross because it does it for
you you can see that in the
UI all right we have our first part of
the tile set now we need to create the
inverse so I will be doing that in steps
to make it as easy as possible for the
model I will Fast Forward a bit so you
don't need to watch me do
this all right so now we have a good
init image and let's change the text
prompt to grasp between dirt
instead and we will now in paint the
parts we want the model to edit and that
would be like in between and I'm going
to
use uh use selection tool to select
paint painting area so that way we can
only edit this part of the
image and we're also using the current
image as Target pallet that's not really
necessary but it can be good so there's
no random colors and then let's use init
image to tell the model there's there
should be grass in between the uh yeah
the
dirt all
right so now we are a third of the way
uh to the inverse of the top left
image so now the plan is to create like
the lower part of the image or like the
ti set so now I'm going to copy paste
over things and this is to make it as
easy as possible for the model
to do the correct
thing then we can inpaint the parts that
the model should edit which in this case
would be the
corners and to help the model out a bit
more we will update the image a bit by
in like making a better init image which
we will take like the colors and
just yeah draw a slightly a bit like
what it should look like it doesn't need
to be perfect or
anything but it will help the model out
a lot by kind of knowing what colors
should beware and then the model will do
the rest for
us the init image strength that you
want uh it depends a bit on like how
good your init image is uh but you can
try 200 first 300 400 maybe even 500 and
just see if you want it to look more
like your init image or
less but now it's time to uh do the
opposite side so the top side and we're
going to do the same thing we're going
to copy paste what looks good place it
in the right position then we're going
to in paint and then create like the
init image and then just click generate
just like before so I will speed up till
we click
generate but it's also good to know like
you can Al you can edit other places as
well if you like so here I kind of want
to edit the green part as well the like
transition so I'm just going to draw a
bit there but it's good to know like the
more the model is allowed to see the
more likely it will perform better and
be able to copy the style of the
image so that's something to take into
consideration and yeah
nice and if you don't like result you
can always you know try again edit in it
image editing the guidance strength and
stuff like that but now I'm just going
to copy paste over so we get the uh
inverse and I will speed up and you can
see what how you can do
that now comes the hardest part when you
want to create like a transition between
like Corners so what we will do is we
will create a init image that is as good
as possible and then we will fix it up
with in
painting uh but this is a lot of manual
work and not as much like just the model
doing everything for us you can try
using the model more but in this case we
got pretty good um parts so we can just
use what we already have and uh yeah I
will speed up and you can see what it
could look
like but as you can see it's basically
just me copy pasting things that I like
and just pasting it over and then if
there are any issues you can use uh in
painting and in it image to like fix it
and then we can just
repeat this until we are happy with the
results and if you're not super happy
you can always just change some settings
or how you imp pinning things to give
the model more or less
information uh so here in this case I
kind of didn't like how it did the
crossover part or what I should call it
so now I'm just in pinning less of that
so the model can see more like it is
supposed to be like a
a nice slope instead of just like a hard
Edge so yeah that's how you create tile
sets in uh pixel app for the last part
I'm just going
to reposition everything and then invert
this one so how I do this I'm using
selection and just putting a minus in
front of the value and there we go yeah
I hope you you find this useful and
you're able to create tile sets
now all right now I'll show you how you
can create tile sets but for side
scrollers
instead so we will start off
by creating like a
platform which is very commonly seen in
video games so the blue is for like a
sky the green is for grass and the brown
is for yeah dirt or rock or something
like that then we go into the create map
tool we will in paint use in it
image and then as a
description it will be important to take
grass on top of dirt platform with a
blue sky in the background which kind of
tells the
model uh what it's yeah was what it's
meant to be you know and here I'm just
going to remove the
uh some of the inating on the on the
sides just so the model can see that
there's like a blue sky so it has some
understanding that it's a flying
platform so yeah there we go a nice uh
start but there are some pieces
missing so first off we want to create
the uh like in between
pieces so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to shift s then move up the top of
the platform and then we will just uh in
paint in between and then uh click
generate and we don't need a init image
here because the model will be able to
see what's above and below and be able
to guess what should be in
between now there are some other pieces
that are commonly
uh seen in tile sets which is like
there's an empty
space in the Rock so that's what we will
do
now and I want to make sure the model
understands there's uh sky in the
background and then we will inpaint the
uh the corners yeah make make sure
you're in the right layer and it's
visible otherwise you can't uh draw in
it then we just in paint
Each corner it's not you don't have to
be like super careful of how you're in
pinning it's good that the model can see
um the blue sky behind
it uh so it understands that it should
be corners and then we will use uh use
selection tool and you can see in the UI
uh what will what the model will see and
what's in
painted and boom there we have it
all right let's create the other parts
of uh tile
Set uh which is like where the uh the
dirt or rocks are like like pillars on
either
sides and then we will just in paint the
transition and then the model will fix
it for
us because the model has uh so much it
can see of like the style and how
everything looks we we should probably
change the description but it's fine
because there's just so much information
that it will be able to understand uh
what we are looking for uh
automatically all right it's time to uh
do the last thing that is sometimes seen
in tile sets and that is like slanted
ground so we will go from a bottom level
to a top level so first we want to
create like a good uh init image or like
uh something for the model to work from
and remember to in paint in
between and then draw like a sketch uh
for the model to use uh so it
understands what should be where it
doesn't need to be perfect but the
better you make it the easier time the
model will have and then let's change
the description
to um grass hill
instead you could also ask for like
slanted or something like
that then just select the area and use
init image init image strength could be
like 300 350 400 450 depends a bit on
like what you're doing so it's good to
like experiment and see what works
better
and here I need to change uh to uh
custom size because my image isn't 64x
64 but 80 by 64 and
then yeah once you're happy click
generate
and you will get something and if you
don't like it here I will increase the
intimate strength because I want it to U
be more like perfectly slanted and you
see it's it's
better but here I'm thinking I could use
this as my init image so I'm just going
to use this uh the generated image as my
init image and like iter iteratively
improve the uh
quality and
yeah this is how you can create a tile
set for side
scrollers I hope you uh found this
useful and helpful
and I will see you in the next video